---
title: "Thursday, January 28, 2021"
date: 2021-01-28T05:30:48-05:00
draft: false
authorbox: false
sidebar: true
tags:
- til
- shell
categories:
- til
---

### A bunch of Unix date scripting things

Unix shell scripting is not one of my better-know areas of programming, but it's on my list of things to learn. Some interesting bits about the `date` function.[^1]

1. Want the long date, like _Thursday, January 28, 2021_? → `date +"%A, %B %d, %Y"`
2. Want something like the above but with abbreviated month _Thursday, Jan 28, 2021_? → `date +"%A, %b %d, %Y"`
3. Time zone in the format of _"-05:00"_ on macOS is:

{{< highlight bash >}}
#!/bin/bash

tz=$(date +"%z" | sd '(\d{2})(\d{2})' '$1:$2')
echo $tz
{{< /highlight >}}

4. Long date in the format of _2021-01-28T05:30:48-05:00_ that is use by Hugo[^2]:

{{< highlight bash >}}
tz=$(date +"%z" | sd '(\d{2})(\d{2})' '$1:$2')
md_date=`date +"%Y-%m-%dT%H:%M:%S"`
{{< /highlight >}}

5. Speaking of dates, [this reference](https://www.shell-tips.com/linux/how-to-format-date-and-time-in-linux-macos-and-bash/) has very detailed information on date and time in the Unix shell.
6. Date in the format of _2021-01-28_ is `date +"%Y-%m-%d"`

### Unix slurp command output into a variable

In the UNIX shell, slurping the output of the command into a variable is done this way:[^3]

{{< highlight bash >}}
OUTPUT=$(ls -1)
echo "${OUTPUT}"

MULTILINE=$(ls \
   -1)
echo "${MULTILINE}"
{{< /highlight >}}


### Append or overwrite a file in Unix shell

You can either append to a file or overwrite the contents from the shell.[^4]

To **append** to a file, it's `echo "hello" >> file.txt` whereas to **overwrite** the contents of a file, it's `echo "hello" > file.txt`


| Function  | Symbol |
| --------- | ------ |
| Append    | `>>`   |
| Overwrite | `>`    |


[^1]: This all pertains to the macOS flavour of the Unix shell. There are important differences, seemingly in the `date` function, for example.
[^2]: I should know what that format is called, but I don't. I think it's ISO 8601. Also, this requires `sd`. If you don't have it, you'd need `sed` instead.
[^3]: Source - [Stack Overflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/4651437/how-do-i-set-a-variable-to-the-output-of-a-command-in-bash)
[^4]: Source - [Stack Overflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/6207573/how-to-append-output-to-the-end-of-a-text-file)